This review will have spoilers. I think majority of the populous knows what happened to Anne Frank and her family, but if you do not please skip my review. I had this book for years. I actually have two copies, but I never read either one of them, and I had them since middle school. It wasn't required in any of my classes. I am starting to think my middle, and high school had major problems. We barely read any classics. It sounds really sad. In Michigan we have a Holocaust museum, called the Holocaust Memorial Center. I remember how much that place affected me when we had a field trip, so I know reading Anne's diary would do the same. I just didn't know how bad.Anne Frank is a young Jewish girl living in Holland, during WW2. Her diary is written during the time her and her family went into hiding in the "Secret Annex" for 2 years. Her diary is not only about the War, but her growing up in the most unideal situation. Her two year story is a different side of a terrible situation. She may have been luckier than most, but still her words are incredible, intelligent, and wholesome. The diary included her deepest thoughts, her worries, and the hardships of the annex. I knew the end from the beginning. I knew it was going to be sad, and I would want to flip tables. My heart, and my shoulders felt so heavy by the end. Anne had her whole life in front of her, and it was cut short. She could of done anything her heart desired. Every entry closer to the end, I would hope that it would end that she left the annex at the end of the war, but sadly it was ended abruptly. Every time she mentioned any bright side of the day, my heart ached knowing. I just wanted to stop the situation. Why cannot I time travel?! I would of jump into that time period, and tuck this family away. Maybe I should have closed the diary, and allowed her to live forever, but her story needed to be told. She, nay the whole Jewish community were innocent victims. Her family, and friends shouldn't of went into hiding. No one should of died. It is revolting, and her words need to live forever, so that this would never happen again. The most amazing thing about reading her diary was the transformation of a young girl to a young woman. She started thinking about bigger ideas, and concepts during those two years. It was magnificent to see. In the beginning, I felt like she didn't really understand what was happening to her community. She understood it was bad, but her young mind couldn't fully comprehend the madness behind it. After the first year something changed in young Anne, and she finally faced the reality of the situation. She kept her hopes up for the most part, but she knew the truth of situation. It was just astonishing to witness how much one can change in a short period of time. This made me even sadder about her fate. The one thing I can say I am happy about is that Anne got her wish. "I want to go on living even after my death." Her diary will live forever. Anne Frank will always be in my thoughts. I will insist my daughter to read her story. Anne is apart of history, along with the millions of Jews, Polish, and any one else who was in the terrible War. All their stories should be heard. I recommend everyone to read this just once. Happy reading. Read my blog here: www.dancingbetweenthecovers.com