This book was fascinating. I was a little surprised that there wasn't more about the atrocities that were happening around them instead of all the turmoil in the household. However, I realize that she was just a very young girl. And, I was surprised about how sexually aware she was. Until she and her family went into hiding, she hadn't had a lot of worldly awareness so she wrote about what was happening around her, and that was everything that went on in that household with those people. It would be hard to imagine how I or any other person would react under the same circumstances. I tried to imagine what it would be like to have to be totally quiet...not to be able to even move around at all for several hours or not be able to use the bathroom when you needed to. I thought what would happen if you had a cold, and were coughing. How could you control it? After she would write about her feelings when certain things were going on inside, she would put a small notation about what was happening in the world outside. They would get news from the outside from those who were hiding them. Another thing that surprised me was the gifts they would give each other on their birthdays. I would have thought that those things would have been rationed and not be available. I guess if you had the money, and apparently they had quite a lot, the regular Germans could still buy "things". Everything I have previously read about that time period indicated that even the "non-Jewish" German people had very little. She talks about being able to make jam from strawberries that were delivered to the warehouse. That would take lots of sugar. Apparently, the factory that they lived above was the factory that her father was a partner in, and they made pectin there. So maybe, the delivery of sugar wasn't suspicious. Or maybe that was what made them vulnerable. However, someone had to have turned them in or they would never have found them behind the bookcase in the annex.I felt sad that her relationship with her mother was so bad. I think, had she live, that relationship might have been repaired with time as it appeared to be mostly misunderstandings combined with her adolescence. Also, her relationship with her sister wasn't good either. Her relationship with the other family was understandable considering the close quarters they shared. It has occurred to me that the Jewish people are a very gentle kind of people therefore enabling them to live under those circumstances for two years. I think it would be almost impossible for most people to live like that. I can't understand why anyone would turn them in to the Gestapo knowing they would be going to their death. Most of their German Christian and Catholic friends were wonderful people who actually put their lives on the line to protect these two families. I have never heard who turned them in.They almost made it. Anne lives on just as she wished. I would highly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in reliving the past with Anne, her family, and friends.