“The books are to remind us what asses and fool we are. They're Caeser's praetorian guard, whispering as the parade roars down the avenue, "Remember, Caeser, thou art mortal." Most of us can't rush around, talking to everyone, know all the cities of the world, we haven't time, money or that many friends. The things you're looking for, Montag, are in the world, but the only way the average chap will ever see ninety-nine per cent of them is in a book. Don't ask for guarantees. And don't look to be saved in any one thing, person, machine, or library. Do your own bit of saving, and if you drown, at least die knowing you were headed for shore.”I love it. I LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE IT!!Oh dear this book is, without a shadow of doubt, the awesomest (is there such a word for that?) way to start my new reading year!Fahrenheit 451 is a story about a fireman who soon realizes his life is messed up with his current job which is to burn books and an indifferent wife who only cares about her television "family". However, as he approached a young, love-life girl named Clarrise, he finally finds out about the important meaning and beauty of life, and most importantly, how it is described truthfully by older generations and nurtured, cherished in books. That's when he decides to start hiding books instead of burning them, and the adventure begins from that on.This book is SO meaningful, and it has strengthened my love for books. Above all, I can clearly understand that it's crucial to protect books not only physically, but also mentally. One can learn to memorise the story inside their minds, and then pass it down to their younger generations. The details may be changed through time, but the meaning stays the same. In this kind of way, we can undoubtedly become wise, witty and rational with not only just the inner of voice of ours but also of others who have joined us through different messages from books!My point is, if I had anything to say to you then please do me the favour of reading this ONE. It will blow your mind ladies and gentlemen.“A book is a loaded gun in the house next door...Who knows who might be the target of the well-read man?” 