Can you think of a more effective means of control?Can you think of a more effective means of keeping the population down? No?Well, me neither. The burning of books is such an effective tool, so the message of Ray Bradbury’s Fahrenheit 451 is scarily real; if society’s wisdom could be taken away then so could their freedom; if knowledge was burnt then the people would be left in a complete state of utter innocent ignorance. That way they could be told anything and no know different. If all books were burnt then they are just sheep to be lead. To make it worse the men who do it enjoy it. "It was a pleasure to burn."The books are destroyed by a special group of firefighters, yes firefighters, which hunt book readers mercilessly. When they find them they burn their beloved collection and leave them to die. One woman literally burns with her books by her own choosing. I can’t say I blame her, if I was in her position I would do the same. By destroying the knowledge of the nation they reinforce its ignorance, and at the same time their own because they are merely following orders from above. The firefighters don’t know exactly why they do it, they rarely question it, they just do it unflinchingly. Books have become illegal; thus, owning them is a form of disobedience against the state and a violation of the law. Guy Montag is one such firefighter. He lives a mundane life with an equally mundane wife. He carries out the book burnings, like the others, without a second thought until one day an innocent young girl changes his life forever. She is his next door neighbour and she is a closet book reader; she asks him a series of questions that makes him realise how stupid and worthless his existence is. He takes solace in a collection of books he has stolen whilst on the job. The knowledge he gains changes his perception of the world forever. The books are being destroyed to reinforce ignorance and achieve a docile population. They have fallen out of favour as other mediums have taken priority over them. People who have become hostile to books because they feel inferior when faced with an educated reader; thus, if they are removed for ever everyone will be the same and minorities will be removed. This leaves little room for individuality and freedom. Consequently, when Guy begins reading he does not know what to do anymore; he has been conditioned to act in a certain way, and when liberty presents itself he is reluctant and confused by his new knowledge. He has spent his life believing one thing, and is overwhelmed by his new perception, therefor; his actions to resolve the issue are irresponsible and reckless. He just doesn’t know how to behave beyond what he has been taught. He is a reluctant hero, but a hero nonetheless. He has stolen one of the last surviving copies of the Bible, but doesn’t know what it is. However, a professor of the bygone age does. He helps him to re-establish a world in which the knowledge of those that came before isn’t squandered and forgotten. Suffice to say, I liked this book a lot. It’s one that will stay with the reader forever, and make them fearful that a day like this could come. Though seriously, if someone came to burn my books I’d kill them. I bought a lovely folio edition of this in which the illustration of the girl came; I even went as far to write a poem/ haiku sequence about the book after reading it. Go easy on it in the comments section please, I never said it was good.Fahrenheit Haiku Sequenceby me Raging Fahrenheitbooks ablaze. The cremationof a knowing age.451Raging Fahrenheitbooks ablaze. The destructionof a burning age.451Raging Fahrenheitbooks ablaze. To fuel the pyreof a dying age. I love this book.