To call this the epitome in which all high fantasy should be judged does not quite suffice; this is simply one of the best books that has ever been written or will ever be written. The Hobbit defines the high fantasy genre along with its sequel, of course, and has been an inspiration to countless authors and readers alike. Tolkien, quite literally, kick started a genre that would eventually capture the hearts of thousands of people. He changed the literary world. The best fantasy universe ever createdMiddle Earth is undoubtedly the nest fantasy universe created. It is the most original and richly devised. It is very hard for fantasy authors not to borrow elements from Tolkien. He set the definition with is wonderful world. Tolkien’s references to modern day are also very amusing and almost unnoticeable in the brilliant narrative, but a perceptive reader will notice the whimsical contrasts he has drawn between his world and the real world. The sheer depth of Tolkien’s imagination is really unmeasurable. I wonder what other ideas for books he may have had that he never had time to pen down. “The road goes ever on and on”Bilbo, like the reader, is blown away by the breath-taking landscape of Middle Earth. We must remember that he too is experiencing the majesty of Rivendell and the mightiness of Erabor for the first time. His reaction reflects a reader who is also awestruck by a world that is as beautifully magical as it is corrupt and wicked; it is a world in which both the benevolent and the malignant reside; it is a world whose people are capable of both great kindness and equally as great cruelty. The peoples are diverse and contrasting; I think the differences between the elves and the dwarves are best captured in their music. The music of the elves is full of mirth and is generally quite playful whereas the music of the dwarves is strong, deep and full of resolve to match their stubborn nature. The wonderful, wonderful, storyThis story belongs to Bilbo Baggins. This is something I think Peter Jackson would do well to remember, but that’s beside the point. The tale begins as Bilbo accidently, unexpectedly, invites Gandalf for tea the next day after a brief encounter. The Wizard marks him as the fourteenth member of his company, his burglar. Bilbo doesn’t really understand what he is getting himself in for when he agrees to join their mission. Indeed, the next evening thirteen dwarves, headed by Thorin Oakenshield, arrive along with their quest to reclaim their gold and slay a dragon: Smaug. Smaug has stolen their home fortress of Erebor. They want it back. Bilbo reluctantly gets dragged along though this reluctance is quickly overcome by a strong, secret, desire for adventure. “I am looking for someone to share in an adventure that I am arranging, and it's very difficult to find anyone.' I should think so — in these parts! We are plain quiet folk and have no use for adventures. Nasty disturbing uncomfortable things! Make you late for dinner!”The story becomes darker as they close in on the mountain. The company are attacked by spiders and abducted by the wood elves who want a share of the dwarfish treasure. The dwarves begin to rely on their burglar who they believed would become a liability. How wrong they were. Bilbo was destined to come along. They would have surely failed if he had not, and the ring of power may never have been destroyed. But, that’s another wonderful story. The game of riddles and the finding of the ring is one of the more memorable scenes of the book and is Bilbo’s gateway into heroism. I think the power he receives from the ring helps him to discover that not only does courage and fortitude, but he has lots of it. Gandalf, if anything, is an excellent judge of character. The ending is just the beginning The ending of this book is undeniably rushed. Bilbo is unconscious for most of it, and we receive a post battle update. There are off page deaths and victories. In this, I think Tolkien cements the message of the story; it is not about the tragic death of a dwarf who went slightly mad, and then redeemed himself; it is not about a boatman who slayed a dragon, and became a renowned hero: it is about a Hobbit. This is Bilbo’s story and no others. It is a story in which a Hobbit who had no courage and no bravery found it. It is a story about a hobbit who was scared to leave his house without a hanky eventually evolved into a Hobbit that would trick a dragon.“You have nice manners for a thief and a liar," said the dragon.”It also sets the readership up for a sequel. If Tolkien focused too much on the dwarfish storyline at the end then the focus of the story would have appeared different. It may have shocked the reader that the sequel was about more Hobbits and not about the Dwarves. This, again, is something Peter Jackson did not realise. I know this is a book review of the Hobbit, but what better place than here to share my distain for that terrible trilogy that Jackson recently farted out? This is Bilbo’s story, not Thorin’s and certainly not Legolas’. This book is called the Hobbit not the hobbit, the dwarf and that elf with the cool sword. “In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit. Not a nasty, dirty, wet hole, filled with the ends of worms and an oozy smell, nor yet a dry, bare, sandy hole with nothing in it to sit down on or to eat: it was a hobbit-hole, and that means comfort.”Furthermore, I read this first when I was twelve years old and again now. I am not sure at which time I enjoyed it the most! This is a book that I will read many more times in my life and it is also book that I will never stop enjoying, no matter how many more times I read it. Also if you like this book as much as me I recommend reading The Art of the Hobbit. I think this captures Tolkien’s vison of Middle Earth more than any artist or movie maker ever could. Alan Lee’s work is more artistic, but Tolkien’s is from the most original source: himself. Five stars. I think you know why. The original cover of the Hobbit, as painted by Tolkien: