1,000,000 Million Stars!I'm going to hit myself on the head. Why? Well, because I'm stupid. I've always told myself that Harry Potter might be something that I won't like, something I won't enjoy. In my head, I kept telling myself that wizards just aren't my thing and all that stupid shit. I honestly don't know why I did that though. But I finally got over my doubt and picked this up and I'm speechless. In a good way of course! It was super good! Next time, for any book series I want to read, I shall never listen to that stupid little voice in my head. I will read anything I want to anytime, anywhere! Especially Harry Potter :) First off, let me talk about Harry Potter. This guy, is fucking amazing. He is one of the few characters I've ever read about that no matter what, stays strong and doesn't let anyone influence him or change his view on things. And that's what I admire most about Harry. If he thinks something isn't right, he sets his mind to it and tries to fix it, regardless of what others say around him. Now me on the other hand, is the complete opposite. I'm the person that cowers behind people and stays quiet. I don't like drawing attention to myself. But Harry really made me see that in certain circumstances, I need to raise my voice and stand up for what I believe is right. Really, I could go on and on, but Harry Potter is just uhhh, I can't even put into words what I'm feeling right now! Next, Ronald Weasley is super adorable! He's funny and well, just Ron. I love his personality and his quirkiness. I wish I had a friend like him. Ron is just that kind of person that can make you laugh or turn a really serious situation into something funny and silly. It's always good to know a person like Ron. Sometimes they come in handy. Also, I fucking suck at chess. I have tried multiple times to play, but I will never understand the rules and strategies of chess. Ron seriously needs to give me a few lessons on how to play chess. Hermione Granger: she knows her facts, studies hard, and is that know-it-all-type-of-girl. At first, I thought she was so bratty. I have to admit, I wasn't really fond of her at first, but as the story progressed, I grew to like her. She's super nice and has Harry and Ron's backs no matter what. Hermione is loyal and just uhhh, again I can't put into words how much I love this girl! Plus, I have her wand. One of my aunts went to "The Wizarding World of Harry Potter" in Universal Studios located in Orlando, Florida like, years ago. At the time, I've of of HP but was never really interested in it. And she came back with Hermione's wand, which looks super badass, if you ask me ;) So I'm proud to say that I have some HP merchandise. To add, she also got me a HP bookmark that's a hook and you just hook it to the inside of your book. Hogwarts is so cool! It's scary yet beautiful at the same time! I would go on about each individual character, but that would be too many words and by the time you get there, you'd probably already be asleep xD So I'll just leave it here. About the rest of all the characters in this book, each and everyone of them were wonderful! As well as the plot! And that surprise twist at the end, I never saw coming! Magnificent book and can't wait to start book 2! :) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I feel so left out on the world Harry Potter and don't have a clue what people are talking about, so I think it's about time I read this baby. And please no spoilers! This is my first time reading the series xoxo :)Super excited! 