As I finished the timeless classic To Kill a Mockingbird, I thought to myself what can I add to a review that the 2 million or so good reads reviewers have not already pointed out. I continued to think to myself about what has made the novel so beloved and decided to focus on a character trait: courage. I read Mockingbird in ninth grade English and I remember the best essay in the class focused on courage. Now reading all these years later, I see how courage is a theme throughout the book. Harper Lee has integrated being courageous into most of the characters in the book starting with the main protagonists. In 1930s rural Maycomb, Alabama people were pretty much set in their way of life. Yet when the court case threatening to disrupt this life hit, the court system knew only one person had the courage to be the defense attorney: Atticus Finch. Despite having a decent chance to win, Atticus realized he had no chance because a jury would never favor a black man over a white regardless of the circumstances. Maintaining the same values at court and home, he told his children Jem and Scout to hold their heads high as rougher days would be ahead; thus, he instilled a sense of courage in his children. We can see courage in the children from the time they were young in this book as well. Jem, Scout, and summer friend Dill had courage to go to the Radley house trying to get Boo to come out even though all the other kids said the house is spooked. Then Scout had courage at school to stick up for her classmates and to hold her head high as the same classmates taunted her due to her father's involvement in the court case. I would also maintain that she had courage to dress like a tomboy when the town mores dictated that she behave like a lady. Additionally we see courage in Tom Robinson, the defendant, who most likely subconsciously realizes he can not win his case due to the color of his skin. We see courage from Mr Dolphus Raymond who lives with negroes even though he is white. We see courage from Mrs DuBose in fighting her illness, and even from lesser characters such as Reverend Sykes for allowing white children to sit in the colored balcony and Aunt Alexandra for supporting her brother even though the rest of the extended Finch family appears prejudiced against blacks. And of course we see courage from Boo Radley himself later on. I believe that the courage exhibited by all these characters has made the town of Maycomb, Alabama stand the test of time and remain the timeless classic that it is. Most people can relate to those who have the courage to stand up for what they think is right or to fight against those tougher than them. This character trait has endeared Scout, Jem, Atticus and company to millions. I probably would not have read To Kill a Mockingbird had it not been a choice in a goodreads book group I am in. I am glad I chose to participate so I can finally read the classic with adult eyes and see what has made this book beloved to millions of Americans for years past and hopefully years to come as well. 