I first read this book in the eighth grade. Our junior high school simultaneously did a preformance of the play. I remember that I enjoyed both the book and the play. I think I liked the love story aspect most of all -- what 13 year-old wouldn't? But I don't think I really "got" the book.For her 13th birthday the German-born Anne Frank received a diary which she named Kitty. About a month after her birthday, her older sister, Margot, at the time just 16 years old, was "called up." For some time Otto Frank, Anne's father, had been preparing a hiding place for his family in a part of his business warehouse. With Margot's letter, the family left within 24 hours, strewing everything about and leaving a note with an address in Maastrich (hometown of musician Andre Reiu) to throw off officials. The family -- Anne's parents and her sister -- shared the secret hiding place with family friends and business partners, the Van Daan's, as Anne calls them though their real name was Van Pels, and the couple's 16 year-old son Peter. A couple months later a dentist, Mr. Dussel (really Pfeffer), joined the group and actually shared a room with Anne. Anne writes of the 25 months in hiding before being discovered in August 1944. Anne Frank died of typhus at Bergen-Belsen in early 1945, just months before the camp's liberation. Anne is an incredible writer. She uses conversation to describe anecdotes, involving body positions, voice tone, etc. just like a novel. She is also intensely thoughtful. She had insight and wisdom beyond her years. Check out this excerpt written only three weeks before the families were betrayed. "It’s a wonder I haven’t abandoned all my ideals, they seem so absurd and impractical. Yet I cling to them because I still believe, in spite of everything, that people are truly good at heart. It’s utterly impossible for me to build my life on a foundation of chaos, suffering and death. I see the world being slowly transformed into a wilderness, I hear the approaching thunder that, one day, will destroy us too, I feel the suffering of millions. And yet, when I look up at the sky, I somehow feel that everything will change for the better, that this cruelty too shall end, that peace and tranquility will return once more" - July 15, 1944I think she may have gone to her diary most often when she was depressed (there are several very mournful entries) and a few times when she was overjoyed (as in when she got her first kiss). She flutuates often between opinions -- I hate my mother, I love my mother and I am hopeful, I am hopeless. I can relate to her changeability. She tells hilarious stories describing the events and worries of the secret annex -- especially entertaining is Mrs. Van Daan. Anne's attention to detail is so helpful in understanding the position of those in hiding. It makes me want to do better in keeping my own personal history. Each character is described so well and maintains his or her character, in a way type-cast in specific way. It would be interesting to hear how those 25 months passed from everyone else's perspective.This book is so well written it is crazy and it is simultaneously entertaining and wise.