About some books you feel like reading as fast as you can to get to know what would be the ending, that's when you completed half of the book you feel like hugging yourself again and again that you've made it this far. And at the same moment you become unhappy that this book will end soon, for you have now a very special and strong bond with the narrator, you feel this connection, your heart feels the narrator's pain and enjoys when everything's going grand in his life. With heavy heart as you reach to the very last pages, you become afraid of the ending, your head says to finish what you started and heart says I don't know what to do. You feel like the book cheated you, it never warned you about the ending, you never gave it a thought when you read its very first lines, you didn't know that the character's, the author's ideas are going to stick to you for the next week; and for some... for their entire life.This is what this book did to me, I'd had heard a lot about this book and for someone who likes to read a lot, it becomes shameful if somebody finds out that they'd not read such classic books. Even when you find it out yourself, that what you've been doing all your life that you hadn't made time to read such books. So it was important for me to read it soon.Yesterday, I went to my friend's room and I saw this book in her bed, she just got it that day, it was a birthday gift. I couldn't resist myself, I grabbed it immediately and started reading it right away. I didn't wait for her to come and ask for permission. (You'd say friends don't mind even if you forgot to ask, but it was a gift that she got that day and if I were her, I'd had surely made a fuss about it in my mind.)There are things one should keep in mind that whenever you're going to read a book, its gonna change something in you in the end and you'd spent the rest of the day to figure out what change had it done. You'll probably think you've become a better person, you've gained some knowledge, you'll smile again and again, you'll feel struck to the moment, the world will look somehow changed, a better place, you'll feel the air you're breathing, for books that shocks the hell out of you, you'll be dumbfounded for some time, scared, you'd need to talk it out to someone, if you'd find a person, no matter what you'll vomit it out, everything, what you felt, how much it has affected you, you don't care if they criticize you and curse you of becoming spoiler, you just had to speak to someone who listens, listens carefully, you'll say it has changed you, it surely did, every good book does but you'll never, never be sure of what change it has brought in your life.So as I came to last chapter, I was mentally begging this author to not to tell me the ending, I was struck with the protagonist, Holden Caulfield and was scared to let him go. He speaks what you always think about almost everything, about how he cannot stand to phony people, about the ducks that he doesn't know where do they go when the lagoon is frozen, about his sister, classmates, students at school, teachers and his brother who is no more. I got to know what it is like to write whatever I think. And when he says exactly what I said to my friends or Mom few days back, at that very moment I know I'm not alone, I never was, someone with same opinion about that topic exist somewhere.To me, it was an adventure to get know about a particular stage in someone's life.