I wish I could count this among my childhood nostalgia books.I remember trying to read this book in grade-school and stopping because there was too much boring scenery and background. I must've been too young because it isn't boring at all, and there isn't all that much scenery as I'd thought and hardly any background. But as I kept reading, this flipped into a feeling that I'm reading this far too old, not young. The voice of the narrator is odd, generally the vague omniscient overlooking tone but occasionally slipping into a confiding 1st person; are you, the reader, the narrator or an accomplice in this tale-telling? This is a book intended to be read out loud* with funny voices (cranky hobbit, grumpy dwaves, grumbling wizard, dumb trolls, merry and suspicious elves, sneering goblins, howling Wargs, roaring dragon) and dancing eyebrows, with blankets shaped into terrain. I wish this had been read to me.Thinking about reading and childhood - my parents read out loud to us, sometimes. I think between about 4-6yo, Mom chose to read Bible stories usually in the middle of the day when us kids were at our most active and wiggliest, so that didn't work out too well. Lots of whining, tears, orders to sit and listen which had the opposite effect. Booooooring; poor Mom, in her choice of reading material. Dad was also in the middle of the day, but this was a few years later, maybe between 8-10yo, when we would bring a book to him and beg him to read. My father has never learned to speak or read English fluently, so the books were from a set of Korean folktales.** My brother and I could barely understand the words but we were fascinated by the sound of his voice. I don't know if anyone is familiar with traditional Korean music, but it features extremely heavy vibrato (I think?), these extended ends of a note with an earthquake shaking in the throat; Dad has a gorgeous voice when he choses to use it, all ragged and fuzzy, which made his readings mesmerizing. I think he lulled us with it, my brother and I nearly swaying as we peeked over his shoulders at the brightly colored illustrations. The least successful reading sessions had him interrupting himself to try to explain the story in broken English. It was only a few weeks before he became impatient with this whole practice and refuse to read to us.I wish there had been more reading to us as children, before bedtime instead of in the middle of the day. I wish my dad had been more patient. I wish he had learned better English, found The Hobbit, and read that to us. I wish I wish I wish.This silly book has made me nostalgic for a childhood I never had. Is there a word for that?I guess I should type about the book itself, since there're enough weepy couch confessions masquerading as book reviews out there (not really! love the non-book reviews, want more). A pacifistic creature known as a hobbit (a little man with big hairy feet) has adventures, makes friends, becomes stronger and proves true to his friends, then goes home. It's a great story.Since my only exposure to Tolkein (Tolkien?) before this has been the LotR movies, I was suprised at the lighter tone of this book. Much less grim and grand but still great. I wonder if the Necromancer is Sauron. There's brief mention of Gollum remembering his grandmother - do we learn more about her later?Since I've lost the chance to have this read to me as a kid, I have the urge to read this to a kid myself. Can I borrow someone's child?------------------*And now I'm wondering how much I've been influenced by Ceridwen's review, where she recommends having babies just to read aloud to them. Also, from Richard's review, it doesn't sound like children sit as still as I imagined for this.**I thought Dad had given these away! Turns out, he gave away a different set of books, just as treasured...oh well. Just recently found that these are still tucked into a corner of the parents' house. I'm going to rescue them from give-away happy Dad.