Review from Aug2012 when I listened to the audio version (d/l from local library) excellently read by Christopher Hurt:From Wikipedia: "Bradbury has stated that the novel is not about censorship, but a story about how television destroys interest in reading literature, which leads to a perception of knowledge as being composed of factoids, partial information devoid of context." That's scarily familiar, isn't it?- It has biometrics. Montag comes home & sticks his hand in the glove on his door & it recognizes him. Wow. - Ear shells that constantly blast entertainment into his wife's head. iPod anyone?- TV screens that cover the walls & inane programs that are more important than real life since they also allow user input. We're just seeing that today.- Montag's run is eerily familiar to King's "The Running Man" & 'reality' TV.- Short wars that no one understands a thing about.- A presidential race decided on which candidate looked & sounded better. Written in 1953 - really? Was he such a visionary or are such problems perennial? I think both.I love Captain Beatty's explanation of how the society came to be. Everyone wants to be happy & they don't have time for real thought, so......If the Government is inefficient, top-heavy, and tax-mad, better it be all those than that people worry over it. Peace, Montag. Give the people contests they win by remembering the words to more popular songs or the names of state capitals or how much corn Iowa grew last year. Cram them full of noncombustible data, chock them so damned full of 'facts' they feel stuffed, but absolutely `brilliant' with information. Then they'll feel they're thinking, they'll get a sense of motion without moving. And they'll be happy, because facts of that sort don't change. Don't give them any slippery stuff like philosophy or sociology to tie things up with. That way lies melancholy....On the way home I was listening to this & one of the characters says that one of the best things about books is that you can shut them when you need to think, unlike the TV & advertising of the book's world. I got home & read some of Education of a Wandering Man by Louis L'Amour. The epigraph to one of the chapters I read was  "A book is a friend that will do what no friend does - be silent when we wish to think." - Will Durant, the author of Story of CivilizationKind of neat getting the same sentiment from two such different sources within an hour of each other.The Afterword was perhaps the best part this time around. Bradbury explains that fire isn't the only way that books get burned, every minority is a fireman when they remove words or content that offends them & he'll have none of it. This edition of "Fahrenheit 451" is supposed to be the original, complete & uncut. He said that he had been shocked to find that previous editions had been edited down until 75 sections had been missing. He received letters in the same week complaining that he was prejudiced for/against the same group in this book.He points to an anthology that contains 400 short stories by famous authors. How did they all fit into one volume? Because they were edited until every author's writing resembled the others. They were stripped of anything that made them unique. Very scary.There have been many remakes of this story. Beatty & his ability to quote is explained in one such contained in the afterword. What had been an unexplained weakness became chilling. Beatty really is the devil incarnate.Anyway, fantastic read(listen) yet again. I highly recommend this version & media. Hurt does a great job picking up the rhythms of Bradbury's writing & about tore my heart out a couple of times. Almost like poetry.----------------Review from 2007 when I joined GR & about the paperback edition of this book:I don't usually review classics for obvious reasons, but I flipped through this again the other day & it's still one of the most chilling books I've ever read. Conform & remember meaningless trivia to be happy. Don't bother with the thorny problems or think for yourself! Immerse yourself in the fantasy world of TV that covers entire walls, so you can be a part of the virtual, mindless world. The shows remind me strongly of the current 'reality TV' craze.Originally published in 1953, it strikes as close to home today as it did when I first read it over 35 years ago, perhaps more so as TV's have gotten bigger, interaction with the shows is more commonplace & the virtual worlds of social networking sites have become as important to some people as their physical world. (No? What about the teenager who committed suicide because of MySpace harassment?)The idea of running around with flame throwers to burn books (451 degrees F. is the heat at which a book combusts, according to the story) is a little weird, but shredders weren't around then (first manufactured in 1959) & it's a cool twist to have firemen who burn things. It also makes the point of the government's violent opposition to uncontrolled information - another current theme.That's why this is a classic. It contains ideas that are still quite pertinent today, perhaps more so than when it was written.