A beautiful and powerful classic about Anne Frank and her family's life in hiding during WWII in the Netherlands.... it's also a coming of age story under these conditions...I initially read this book as a pre-teen girl. I remember really being able to relate to 
Anne Frank
 and her diary at that time and also being horrified and shocked at how the book ended. In this re-read, I knew how the book would end and I am not coming at it with the perspective of a young girl. However, this remains a touching read - beautifully written and hauntingly sad....The book is in the form of a diary written to "Kitty". As consistent with a diary, it is not always spellbinding, but it is real and touching! Instead of politics, the book focuses on family relationships and dealing with puberty and beginning to achieve independence from your parents.... a budding relationship with a boy... a first period.... schoolwork... all from the perspective of a young girl hidden away to avoid the Nazi's...Many times when I start or finish a book, I look at the reviews of other members of GR. In this case, I was shocked at reading several reviews and comments which looked like a battle between two camps -- 1) this shouldn't be a classic (it's boring, it doesn't have action, etc.) and 2) this is a 5-star read (and if you think it isn't then you don't care about the Holocaust). Everyone is entitled to their own opinion -- I am just amazed at how divisive the pulse seems to be on this book and find it ironic (especially with this book) when comments made on reviews cross lines of courtesy. In completing this re-read, I found that there are multiple versions of the work available - at varying levels of length and editing.* The initial version that I read as a pre-teen was the shorter and cleansed version.* This version is the full one. It contains some references to anatomy, but more importantly, contains more details from Anne on her conflicts with her mother. (Otto Frank edited these portions out ...) I feel like this longer and more complete version is more real.* A version in the middle of these two.... (clear as mud, huh?)Beautiful quotes:“I've found that there is always some beauty left -- in nature, sunshine, freedom, in yourself; these can all help you.”“There's only one rule you need to remember: laugh at everything and foget everybody else! It sound egotistical, but it's actually the only cure for those suffering from self-pity.”“As long as this exists, this sunshine and this cloudless sky, and as long as I can enjoy it, how can I be sad?” For those who are interested in reading the story of the Frank family in another format, I would recommend Anne Frank Remembered: The Story of the Woman Who Helped to Hide the Frank Family by Miep Gies (woman who helped to hide her family). This was a wonderful read and is in more standard non-fiction format told from perspective of humanitarian who offered assistance at risk to herself.Anne was a shining star and an enthusiastic writer..... How incredibly sad that she was not around to see her work published and continue to create.