
“Perhaps one did not want to be loved so much as to be understood.” 
Orwell caught me off guard. After a slow start, the novel picked up the pace. It was depressing, dark and hopeless. For some reason, every time Winston's name is mentioned, I think of Winston Churchill. This is not a story about revolution or making world a better place, but the story about a corrupted power and what you get if you connect two incompatible ideologies - fascism and Marxism. It's brilliant. By the year 1984, the world has been divided up into three major nations - Eurasia, Eastasia and Oceania. Oceania is where our protagonist lives. The one Party rules and Big Brother reigns, watches and controls everything. There's only one language and it's the Newspeak, or rather some kind of an anti-language, whose purpose is to limit speech and understanding and leads to the loss of literature. Individuality is frowned upon and leads to being labelled as a traitor of the Party. The nation is always at war, words are disappearing from the vocabulary, everyone are monitored through telecasters, even bad thoughts are a crime. As much as we know, only one man knows something is wrong and not even he is ready to fight for the change. The world-building is so fully described, detailed and terrifying that it looks like Orwell visited such place and wrote it all down. The society in the book has no written laws, but many acts, mostly bad thoughts, are punishable by death. The main message is that censorship and brainwashing are a key to a greater power. Orwell explores the idea of how we are controlled in life and how we control others in return. At times, he suggests war brings peace and unity, whether it's the war with ourselves or with others. I don't think that anyone has done a better job in showing realistic nightmare of a society without basic civil rights and a government with complete and unchallenged control. I believe every single person who had read this book recognised some similarities between the plot and the societies nowadays. It's a cold and cruel vision of the world in which people can be forgiven for hating and violence. This novel brings up a few questions. Does controlling the truth and history enable us to control how other people think? Who is the real enemy? Is it a few sociopaths who control everything or the rest of us when we act like sheep? It bring up the everlasting dilemma - was Hitler really the one to blame or 90% of Germans who voted for him? Those methods of controlling life will eventually kill what makes life worth living. Freedom of mind is something we all should take for granted. We all want to believe we’re untouched by governments' propaganda, but are we? Why humans feel the need to destroy and control each other? This book is bleak, lifeless, frightening, disturbing and extraordinary. A book from 60 years ago, set 30 years in the past, is still horribly relevant today. "War is peace. Freedom is slavery. Ignorance is strength.”  And let's not forget the most famous and disturbing 2+2=5. When you think about it, ever since tribes were formed, maybe even before that, there always was some kind of a war. Even today we can speak of informal Third War that is happening right know in Africa and Asia. It's almost like humans feel more comfortable in war than in peace. "Power is in tearing human minds to pieces and putting them together again in new shapes of your own choosing."  This quote speaks for itself. “In the face of pain there are no heroes.”  This sentence is crucial for the last third of the book. For those who haven't read it yet, there is only one way to find out what Orwell meant with this quote. READ THE BOOK NOW. I must admit, the ending wasn't what I have expected, though there was no other way it could've ended. I won't say it's was a tragic ending, but it was necessary.Winston is smarter than many other citizens, but he is also discontent, paranoid, weak-willed and passive-aggressive. He's not special in any way nor young, attractive or strong. He doesn't find strength within himself, he doesn't "save the world". Maybe the fact that he's unsuccessful is what is important about 1984. He tries, he fails, and he could be any one of us. “To die hating them, that was freedom.” Well, at least he had a goal. Winston's relationship with Julia was tender and a necessary escape from the reality. Unfortunately, their bond is established purely on physical attraction. He treats her like she's a sex toy. He thought of her as someone with limited intelligence and had to be patiently told each detail that others could immediately comprehend. In a way, Julia is our true hero of the novel because she was the only one who made even small attempts at being genuinely happy.  “You're only a rebel from the waist downwards,' he told her.”  One of the rare humorous moments in the book. Check out my blog! 