This is one volume consisting of some 1200 pages of small print and containing the three books which were really only one novel and which we erroneously refer to as a trilogy. The advantage of lugging this hefty door-stopper around wherever you go is primarily psychological. If you feel the need to disappear from this here society for a while, for example, you can just toss this in your backpack and you know that wherever you go, you will survive, somehow. And on a dark winter morning as you face another day, you can hug the book to your chest and breathe easier for you know you will get through. At night, when you go to bed, put it on your nightstand and reach out and touch it in the dark when it gets bad. There are sacrifices to be made, of course, people will look at you funny as you sit in that mall bench with a book as big as the Bible while you wait for members of your family to finish shopping. It doesn't really matter that you've read the book before because reading this book is not about newness. This book is more like the bannister you grab onto when you're going down dark stairs. You want to feel the same smooth and solid wood that you've felt a thousand times. Because what you are asking this book to do one more time is to remind you. Re-mind-you as in re-setting your mind again so that it is re-aligned with those truths that have always rung true to you but which you always, for some reason, end up forgetting. Simple truths you know as true but will never be able to prove. Like the truth that life feels like a big battle that can be lost if you don't muster up some courage for the fight; or the truth that there is an evil force out there that seems very real and seeks to destroy us and will do so unless somehow we find the greater force that wants to live; and this other one: that you are blessed if you can find a friend or two to help you along the way. We read books for all kinds of reasons but the best reason to read is our deep hunger for words that will help us find a way in our lostness. And this one, well, just having it next to you will be a solace.