
Where there's life there's hope.
I've been thinking a lot of how many stars giving to the book, since there were parts that I loved a lot, but there were others that I found tedious and even anti-climatic, but in respect to this great writer, J.R.R. Tolkien, I think that the book deserves at least 4-stars rating with which I feel easy since I am not giving it a full rating but also I am not punishing it for things that maybe a future re-reading will solve.
In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit.
Anyway, it's amazing how with this line... In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit. ... the epic fantasy were never the same... it got better!It's so fantastic to think how Tolkien felt the impulse to write down this line, and from it, a whole epic universe came into life. I loved to read when some book came up from a dream (like Mary Shelley's Frankenstein) or from an unknown impulse, like in these case. I watched at some moment a documentary abour Tolkien's work and I learned how he was looking for a mythology, in the sense like the Nordic one or the Greek one, to call as own on England, and it was the trigger to creat such vast and appealing universe. And even more interesting to choose its point of development, since the core books like this one, The Hobbit and the following trilogy of The Lord of the Rings, are located in an time where the magic is leaving the Middle-Earth and the age of men is becoming the important one.
If you sit on the doorstep long enough, I daresay you will think of something.
I think that certainly many people could love "more magic" in the main story, there would be others who enjoy the "more downed" tone with more "realistic" elements. In that way, everybody can like this story since there is a good balance of magic and "terrenal" stuff. I learned that in the second edition/fifth printing (if I am not mistaken) was where Tolkien made the corrections in the Fifth Chapter, Riddles in the Dark, to make it fit better with the evolution of the sequel known as The Lord of the Rings.
Thief, thief, thief! Baggins! We hates it, we hates it, we hates it forever!
Still, it was amazing how Tolkien could develop such impressive "sequel" from the book of The Hobbit with only editing one chapter, but definitely a key one. It's wonderful how the mood of the book is at hand with the maturing of Bilbo Baggins, the main protagonist, since the story started quite innocent and even with such humoristic moments and step by step is turning more and more serious, in the same way as Bilbo is getting more serious about his role in the mission. 
My Precious, my Precious.
The two introductions about characters that I absolutely loved were the Elrond's and Smaug's...
About Elrond...

He was as noble and fair in face as an elf-lord, as strong, as a warrior, as wise as a wizard, as venerable as a king of dwarves, and as kind as summer.
I mean...wow!!! If you are not impressed about a character when he or she is introduced in such way, well, I don't know what else you'd need.
About Smaug...

My armour is like ten fold shields, my teeth are swords, my claws spears, the shock of my tail a thunderbolt, my wings a hurricane, and my breath death!
Oh yes, right then, anybody without a ring of power on his finger should run like crazy and never 
NEVER
 stop to look behind.
It does not do to leave a live dragon out of your calculations, if you live near him.
Without spoiling anything really crutial, I think that my most favorite part were the moon-letters. I mean, secret messages that you can read only at certain position of the moon in the year... WOW!!! and my favorite moment there, was when is asked to Elrond if the map says something else... Not with this moon. (Or something much like it) I mean, it gives a promise that may that map has some other secrets in there, only to be revealed at the right position of the moon in the year. WOW!!! It's cool when you read or see an scene where certain treasure's location is revealed when the sun's light or moon's light came into a certain room at certain moment of the year, but I think that this "moon-letter" and/or "moon runes" are way WAY MUCH COOLER.Obviously, Gandalf is a great character, but I think that it was "too" great and Tolkien had troubles to think about challenges to put into the travelling group and they could mean a real risk having a powerful wizard in the midst. And you sensed it when they are in peril UNTIL Gandalf appears again. I understand. Gandalf rules! But hey, if you create such powerful character you have to live with him/her, I mean, if you will have troubles to think about adventures involving him/her, well, then, at least, let's present him/her as a passing character like Elrond, but when you have Gandalf in the travelling group, it's even more notorious the conflicts of the author when that character is dissapearing and appearing.In here, about Smaug's fate... (view spoiler)[You have such powerful and intimidating character as Smaug, the last of the dragons, with such fearful introduction and later bam! it is beaten with a dang arrow? Thanks to a very convenient failure in his armour that a hobbit that he doesn't know anything about warfare, he was able to deduce a weak point that many, many, many warfaring races weren't able to deduce? And so, this menace that it's been spoken about along the whole book...bam! It's killed with a single arrow and even the arrow is shot by a totally new character that you didn't know anything about until that moment? Geez! (hide spoiler)]I was expecting more about Thorin Oakenshield. Certainly, the first part of Peter Jackson's film adaptations gave him a lot of credit and respect, presenting him as a powerful leader, where in the book, he doesn't do anything useful. And in fact, I didn't find out why so many dwarves in the story since nobody did something particulary memorable. At some moments, you think that Balin will become something more in the story but no, Bombur is only remembered by his weight (that I found something cruel how he is treated in the story) and even I thought that since Gloin is the father of Gimli, he would do something awesome at some moment but no. So, why so many dwarves in the group if they won't do something useful in the story? I think Gimli, one single dwarf, did more to give a good name to the dwarf race in The Lord of the Rings, than 13 dwarves in the whole The Hobbit.I loved the trolls! Maybe some people didn't get the most humoruous aspect of them. I mean, you are in the Middle-Earth and everybody has names like Bilbo, Thorin, Gandalf, Elrond, etc... but the trolls' names are: Bert, Tom and William!!! I don't know but I found that such amusing, that they had such common and "modern" names in the middle of such "epic fantasied" names. At the end, The Hobbit is a wonderful piece of writing where you find a totally new race in almost each chapter and not only you know the new race but also you get a "glimpse" realizing that behind of each race there is an extensive and rich history that you won't be able to know in its entirely way, adding more mystery to the whole universe created here.