 “There must be something in books, things we can’t imagine, to make a woman stay in a burning house; there must be something there. You don’t stay for nothing.” It’s amazingly enchanting how an author like Ray Bradbury could have such an astounding foresight by writing this book. Fahrenheit 451 written in 1953 is a unique eutopian turned dystopian story that seems to me a sort of a premonition of our society today (of course in a much subtle and less exaggerated way than that of the book). Portable viewers, self absorbed individuals who could care less about other people so long as they are comfortable are just few of the fulfillment of those premonitions that are evident in our society today. The ironies used throughout the story are strikingly stupefying such as: a. Firemen start fire instead of stopping it by incinerating books in possession of disobedient civilians. b. Guy, the main character and a fireman paradoxically keeps books in his house all the while. c. Books are considered bad when people in their society commit suicide, murder, bullying as if they were ordinary parts of everyday routine.This book is not only great for the story it contains, but also for its artistic literary elements used by the author throughout the book. The writing language can pierce through the readers’ hearts and the implicit morale inscribed in the story reaches out to one’s very core.Perhaps one of the downsides other readers might find in the entire story is that the tone is way too serious. Also, the mood is quite depressing. It was as if I was reading the entire story in black and white and I couldn’t stop my brows from colliding with/meeting each other while reading several parts. Yet, I still couldn't count these things as demerits because they perfectly harmonize with the story's theme and it helped that one character, a girl named Clarisse provided the color and hope that I was looking for.Needless to say, this is one of the most remarkable classics I have read and the ending will leave you a lasting impact that will always stalk the corners of your mind.  This is a must read. 