One of the themes of my reading this year is to reread the classic books I read while in school and view them through adult eyes. It is in this light that I read F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby and rated it 3.5 stars. Taking place during the roaring twenties in Long Island, New York, the story features the up and coming generation, veterans of the Great War and adherents of the American Dream. Our narrator is Nick Carraway a war veteran who has moved east to seek his future in the stocks and bonds market. Although young, he appears out of place amongst the frivolity taking place around him. It is in this light that the story occurs. Most people most likely know about the story of Tom and Daisy Buchanan and Jay Gatsby aka James Gatz. All have come to New York to seek the American Dream in one way or another. Usually I am drawn to rags to riches stories like Gatsby's, but I am going to focus on the two elements of the book that had me rate the book lower than other classics. The first element I did not like was the love affairs that took place throughout the book. Tom and Daisy appear happily married on the surface. At first meeting, they invite Nick to their home in an attempt to set him up with professional golfer Jordan Baker. They have an apparent warm home and beautiful daughter, and, yet, neither is happy. Rather than get on with their lives, each would rather be gallivanting around with others and face the consequences later. This was a major sticking point for me because personally part of the American Dream is bettering oneself to leave a better life for future generations, yet the Buchanans chose to be products of the frivolous decade they lived in. Fitzgerald painted a picture of life in the twenties that has endured; however, it was a turnoff to me. The other element that I did not care for was the disjointed story telling. We do not find out completely about Gatsby and his background until near the end of the novel. Usually, the uncertainty makes me want to read pages quickly to find out the twist, but in this particular case, I would have liked to have known sooner, allowing the rest of the plot to shape itself out. Looking back, I believe the disjointed plot parallels the disjointed ways of the Buchanans and Gatsby's lives; I tend to prefer a more straight forward story. What does make Gatsby a classic for me, and I can see why this book is read in schools because it leads to discussion, is the imagery, especially the green light at the end of the dock, which could symbolize many things. For me, this green light is the American Dream, the seeking of a better life, which is what Gatsby, the Buchanans, and Nick Carraway were striving for in some way during the novel. I can now say that I read The Great Gatsby for the first time in twenty years; yet, the story isn't as timeless for me as other classics I have read. 