The book starts with this sentence:It was a pleasure to burn! WOW AND I THOUGHT OKAY THEN LETS DO THIS!Fahrenheit Meaning: Fahrenheit is a temperature scale based on one proposed in 1724 by the Polish-born German physicist Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit (1686–1736), after whom the scale is named. It uses the degree Fahrenheit (symbol °F) as the unit.By the end of the 20th century, Fahrenheit was only used as the official temperature scale in the United States For my Loving books – luckily not burned!!!!Journey - Faithfully https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMD8h...The plot of this novel is simple but outrageous; books are hazardous to an unimportant and monitoring culture--therefore, burn them. Lacking books, there can be no recollection of how things were or should be.In Fahrenheit, one of the reasons that people don't read is that reading makes them feel bad. As a society, the people want to have fun, and they can't get that through reading.Fahrenheit 451 is a novel about book-burning, but this story goes much profounder than those not having read it may suspect "Fahrenheit 451" was first published in 1953. This is a very twisted book based on a time many years from now, a time when books weren't made to be read, but to be scorched."Fahrenheit 451" is not only about restriction, but also about the characteristic tension in forward-thinking civilizations between facts and unawareness.Background informationin 1951 and then expanded into "Fahrenheit 451" two years later.The government did not simply prohibition of books instantaneously. Censorship started gradually and at truncated stages. Its message truly does become even more relevant and visionary with every passing day.Bradbury’s book was written nearly fifty years ago and peers just twenty minutes into the future. Technological developments he had no name for then are very real today.But if widespread culture is continually valued above considerate thought and schooling, we'll march right into a land of burning books and intellectualism on the run.The story revolves around one lone fireman, Guy Montag, who, oddly enough, sets fire to books instead of putting them outIt defines a time in the future where restriction triumphs and minds are captive. Nobody has unique opinions; with the eliminating of books originality was lost as well.Chapter Development REO Speedwagon - Can't Fight This Feelinghttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zpOUL...The novel is based on a short story, "The Fireman," that Bradbury published in "Galaxy Science Fiction" Guy Montag, the protagonist, is a fireman (firemen scorch books in this story) who has to fight to wrench himself from the grip of an uncontrollable government and custom, only to see that it is all hopeless (why teach to people who can't understand?). The novel shows what restriction can do to a civilization, and why people must not accept the average without questioning its truthfulness and consequences.He meets a girl who, unlike all of the others, "thinks," not only around life expediencies and the profounder meaning behind the actions which happen in our day-to-day lives, which we don't admit because we are all so busy, he develops an obsession with discovering the truth behind those books and behind life. SHE is free-spirited teenager who breathes life into his state of uncertainty and opens his mind to brand new thoughts and possibilities.She makes him admit that he is not happy, his life is changed forever!Along the way, he meets Faber, the aged gentleman who guides him on his voyage. There is a certain disaster in this book, and although the events in this book don't happen in life precisely as indicated in this book I must state it is remarkably similar to our everyday life.We join Guy's life as he crosses the threshold into a point of indecision. He has gambled to steal a book here and there and hidden them away in his house, a most treacherous wrongdoing. Montag's conversations with his Fire Chief on this subject are quite astounding and revealing, and between this and Montag's friendship with an old former professor, we learn how Montag's world came to be this way.There are so many things in our current society that Bradbury was only glimpsing when he wrote the book, but they are so much worse, now, than then. I'll focus on two things:We don't like to make people feel depraved of anything.This has been a rising movement over the past few decades with our drive toward constructive thinking and making all "politically correct," we started to stop allowing kids to experience losing. Losing feels bad. Intelligent thoughts is hard work, it makes people feel bad and dumb, if you read you need to think, if they think, they will realize just how really dumb they are not understanding what they are Thinking about whatever for extended too an amount of time becomes a wicked entity; it's thinking they're really trying to get rid of, not the books. 
Quotes I lovedREO Speedwagon - That Ain't Lovehttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OfSHz...
" I can hear that sound in my head when I read it, and it gives the passage a weight that just isn't found in a lot of modern books.” She had a very thin face like the dial of a small clock seen faintly in a dark room in the middle of a night when you waken to see the time and see the clock telling you the hour and the minute and the second, with a white silence and a glowing, all certainty and knowing what it had to tell of the night passing swiftly on toward further darkness, but moving also toward a new sun."The good writers touch life often. The mediocre ones run a quick hand over her. The bad one’s rape her and leave her for the flies""It’s not books you need, it’s some of the things that once were in books. The same things could be in the ‘parlor families’ today. The same infinite detail and awareness could be projected through the radios and tele-visors, but are not""If you don’t want a man unhappy politically, don’t give him two sides to a question to worry him; give him one. Better yet, give him none.""With school turning out more runners, jumpers, racers, tinkerers, grabbers, snatchers, fliers, and swimmers instead of examiners, critics, knowers, and imaginative creators, the word ‘intellectual,’ of course, became the swear word it deserved to be."“If you don't want a man unhappy politically, don't give him two sides to a question to worry him; give him one. Better yet, give him none”.“Give the people contests they win by remembering the words to more popular songs or the names of state capitals or how much corn Iowa grew last year. Cram them full of non-combustible data, chock them so full of facts they feel stuffed, but absolutely brilliant with information. Then they'll feel they're thinking, they'll get a sense of motion without moving"

Journey - Don't Stop Believin'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1k8cr...Why my rating?→Don’t be foolish read the book!!!!Will I read it again?→OH YES My feelings while reading this: → To the Author Bradbury tells this book in a poetic pose, Bradbury looked at unlike singularities in our society- the yearning to not insult anyoneThe language of Bradbury is superb, his language exquisite. Things like, "...under an ancient windmill that whirred like the sound of the passing years overhead."That Bradbury was tackling these topics back in '53 (actually earlier, because Fahrenheit was based off of a short story he wrote in the 40s called "The Fireman") says a lot.Thank you :D Abdullah Khalid 
