 I avoided reading this, wary of all the hype, seen the movie - so if you’re one of the few who hasn’t read it I promise not to harass you by proclaiming that ‘you must!’ If the mood ever strikes though I bet you’ll love it. What convinced me was when a young interracial couple I know had their 1st child and she insisted on naming him Atticus. At first her husband hated the name, that is until he read the book... Then his enthusiasm was so infectious it got to me, that and curiosity. Why does it continue to strikes a chord with so many? Now that I’ve joined the ranks of the besotted (5 stars – personal top 10) I understand…It’s really entertaining, a great story that hooks and pushes all the emotional buttons. The characters are memorable; Scout as the sassy little scrapper is hilarious, Atticus as a decent man trying to do the right thing unforgettable. Having heard it quoted so often I expected great dialog, what surprised me was her mastery at evoking time and place, I stepped back to childhood in a small circa 30’s Southern town.Packed with wisdom Harper’s choice in telling it through the guileless eyes of a child stop it from coming across preachy. With anti-racism at its core it’s also about being decent & respectful to ‘all folks’, be they poor, elderly or mentally ill. Mostly it’s about having the courage to stand by your convictions “It's when you know you're licked before you begin, but you begin anyway and see it through no matter what.” I loved its honesty. (view spoiler)[her choice not to pander the reader with a happy-ever-after not-guilty verdict  (hide spoiler)]Despairing the state of the legal system (“first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers” a personal favorite) I was jaded enough to have had a hard time buying into Atticus. But I did, it felt good to actually like a lawyer, to believe that idealistic people can evoke change. Cons: It ended, I wanted more. Side notes: I’ve got a thing for reading debuts, this one’s the best I’ve read and I was floored that it was written by a young southern woman in the early 60’s. Wonder if Kathryn Stockett based the character Skeeter on Harper Lee when she wrote The Help…As to the movie, highly recommended but the book is a completely different animal, unfair to compare. If I could turn back time I'd read the book 1st, THEN watch the movie... 