
“War is peace. Freedom is slavery. Ignorance is strength.”
In a world of constant war between three all-controlling superpowers, every single human being in Oceania is being ruled by the Party. All freedom is gone, all pleasures are forbidden, all information is propaganda, rebellion is unthinkable, and your relatives will not hesitate to betray you. Even thinking rebellious thoughts is a crime, bound to get the attention of the Thought Police and a harsh punishment. And the masses live in constant fear. For they know that Big Brother is watching them...Just like The Lord of the Rings is the mother of all fantasy stories, 1984 is the mother of all dystopian stories. Neither of these books were the first in their respective genres, far from it, but both of them changed their genres into something more, and in many ways became the greatest works ever written.This is as far as I can see an important book more than a good one. George Orwell is a much greater thinker than he is a writer. 1984 is not a spectacular book in any way. It’s not particularly well-written. It’s not particularly complex. But the ideas behind it are greater than any book.Personally, I’ve always considered Orwell to be one of the most important thinkers of the modern era. He’s revolutionised the way we see the world. And while his is the way of the journalist, the political commentator and the social critic, his books are still enjoyable to read for what they are.The thing I find the most interesting about this book is that it’s basically a critique of radical left-wing thought. Yes, you’ll find attacks on capitalism and different forms of authoritarianism. But Orwell’s main attacks are focused towards the dangers of revolution, communism and left-wing thought in general. As the man himself once stated, "So much of left-wing thought is a kind of playing with fire by people who don't even know that fire is hot."Now that, however, is not interesting in itself, or special in any way. The interesting thing is that Orwell himself was a left-wing thinker. You might accuse him of hypocrisy, but that would miss the point entirely. The thing that fascinates me the most about Orwell is that he’s a left-wing thinker who manages to see the flaws and dangers of left-wing thought, and subsequently tries to develop his own views from that insight.Since political terms mean different things to different people (although there are right and wrong definitions of most of them), I won’t showcase my own views in a public review. Ask me privately if you’re interested; I love discussing politics. Here and now, suffice it to say that Orwell and I agree on a great many things.So much for the political analysis. For further reading I'd recommend having a look at Isaac Asimov's very critical review, which I found almost as interesting and important as the book itself.“If you want a picture of the future, imagine a boot stamping on a human face—for ever.”More than anything, 1984 is the core of dystopia. It shows us everything that is wrong with our world, everything that has been wrong with it, and most importantly, everything that could go wrong in the future.In addition to presenting the reader with a possible future that to most of us would seem like our worst nightmare, it has a philosophical core bound to enlighten just about anyone on a thing or two. Orwell teaches you the true meaning of power and fear, and of the most stable pillars of human society.This is one of the most important books of our time. It inspired every single dystopian writer after it. It inspired V for Vendetta, one of my favourite movies. It inspired generations of political thinkers. And it’s a book everyone should read at least once.“We shall meet in the place where there is no darkness.”