Alabama, the U.S.A., 1935, during the crippling, bleak, Great Depression, Atticus Finch, a widower, struggling lawyer, and ultimate believer in justice for everybody, (a gentleman, if ever there was one) is raising two small children, Scout, (Jean Louise) and Jem, (Jeremy), a typical American boy, he likes to have fun, in the fictitious, mostly quiet, small southern town of Maycomb. The siblings are unusually close, the father is absent often, being a politician in the legislature, in Montgomery, the state capital. Calpurina, their black servant, takes good care of them, and they all love, is the real parent of the kids, and of course, considered a member of the family. Mr. Finch is a rather remote, uncomfortable father, the children call him by his first name of Atticus. Scout, age eight, a tomboy, Jem , who's four years older than his precocious sister and friend Dill, (Charles Baker Harris) a year older than Scout but not as big, and is frequently bullied, are always together. Dill from Meridian, Mississippi, spends his summers at his Aunt Rachel's house, in town and left alone. Next door to the Finch's, live the Radley family, a strange people that keep to themselves, particularly Boo, (Arthur) a legendary creepy, mysterious man , that is never seen, weird stories abound about him, by the curious, neighborhood kids, they test their bravery, by how close they can come to Boo's house. The gentle, Mr.Finch, shocks Scout and Jem when he shoots a mad dog, at the sheriff's request, Mr. Tate, knows about Atticus's skill, but he doesn't even have a gun at home, never seen with one either. This sleepy town awakens when Bob Ewell, a lazy, notorious drunk, accuses a black man Tom Robinson, of raping his flirtatious daughter, Mayella. The honorable, Judge Taylor, appoints Atticus, as Robinson's lawyer, an impossible task in that era. The trial brings people from all over Maycomb County , to the courthouse , Atticus Finch shines, but can he free an innocent man ? This story implies every human, should be treated with dignity, no matter what the color of their skin, and after so many years, have gone by , is still the best novel in urging equality for all, what a concept... 