Maybe one day soon I'll write a proper review of The Hobbit.In the meantime, I want to say this:If you are a child, you need to read this for Gollum's riddles.If you are an adult, you need to read this book to children (if you don't have children, rent borrow some) for at least one opportunity to roleplay Gollum.Becuz 
GOLLUM ROOOLZ!!!!!
 
See here, he even won an award!!
 (PS. Since Gollum features so strongly in this review, 
here
 is an interesting video on the acting and CGI genius that went into the making of the screen Gollum.)Of course the most compelling reason to add this to your reading list in haste is that it's coming to the MOOVIEZZZ!! (Update: commentary on the moviez below).Btw, if you like kickass fighting elves, not to mention pretty kickass she-elves and some sizzling elf/dwarf romance--well, then you might like the second Hobbit movie more than the book... ahem!Part 3 coming to a cinema house near you soon(-ish). My PRECCIOOOUUSSSSS!...and soon I'll have a copy of the all the moviez, and they will be me MINE, all mine, just like my precciousss illustrated copies of the novel.Ha, you didn't think one copy would be enough did you??If you get around used bookstores a lot, do look out for an illustrated version of the book!Update: About the 3 films by Peter Jackson: I didn't find the first 2 films very memorable. He seemed to draw it out almost unbearably, and it also felt to me as if he was embellishing the original story a bit. The whole thing seemed like actiony rubbish, though I personally actually quite enjoyed the swinging, shooting, swordfighting ninja elves and the bit of romance.But the THIRD film, The Battle of the Five Armies , now -that- was a good one. I almost missed it on the big screen because of the mediocrity of the first two films. But I was glad, oh so glad that I actually did go and see it. The cinematics, acting and editing was all very well done, but it was the screenwriting and directing that really shone. Here we saw a story of courage and cowardice; of generosity; of greed and avarice; of greatness of soul and of smallness of soul; of love; of selflessness; of brotherhood; of hatred; of humanity; of pain; of sacrifice; of struggle; of moral and spiritual victories; of sadness and loss, but above all, of triumph of the soul.Yes, The Battle of the Five Armies  is certainly something that does Tolkien justice at the very least, and what a joy it was to behold on the big screen. :)PS. The movies also taught us that dwarves CAN be hot!